About Me
=========

Hi! I’m George K. Thiruvathukal. I’m professor of computer science at
Loyola University Chicago and visiting faculty at Argonne National
Laboratory.

I earned the PhD and MS degrees in computer science from Illinois
Institute of Technology in 1995 and 1990, respectively, and BA in
computer science and physics (double major) with a mathematics minor
from Lewis University in 1988. As a computer science major, I was named
the top graduating student in computer science in 1998 and was inducted
into the `Sigma Pi Sigma <https://www.sigmapisigma.org>`__ Physics
national honor society.

My primary research training is in the areas of high-performance
computing, distributed systems, and software engineering with an
emphasis on techniques to support parallel and distributed programming
using modern software engineering practices, languages, and paradigms
(e.g. object-oriented design and functional programming).

My doctoral research focused on object-oriented approaches to parallel
programming and the development of object models, languages, libraries,
middleware, and tools for parallel programming, which incorporated
elements of dataflow computing, actors, and computational agents,
resulting in several research prototypes written in the C and C++
languages on Unix platforms. After completing and defending my
disseration, I re-implemented many of the ideas from my dissertation in
the Java programming language, which resulted in a book,
*High-Performance Java Platform Computing*, Prentice Hall and Sun
Microsystems Press in the *Java Series*, which was cited in the Java
Specification Request, JSR-166 (Concurrency Utilities) as a
related/existing work. Our book, while no longer in print, is available
freely and openly at
`works.bepress.com/gkthiruvathukal/26/ <https://works.bepress.com/gkthiruvathukal/26/>`__.

Beyond my PhD training, I have wide-ranging interests in and beyond
computer science, including cyber-physical systems, history of
computing, computational and data science (applied to science and
humanities problems), computing education, broadening participation, and
social/societal issues in computing. In recent years, I have been
following the path of many computer scientists by adding machine
learning and artificial intelligence to the mix.

During my copious free time, I study jazz improvision and solo/ensemble
performance at Old Town School of Folk Music with `Jack
Cassidy <https://www.jackcassidymusic.com/>`__. I also enjoy cooking and
baking with my family, which is truly a common bond for all of us!

My research is and has been funded by grants from the National Science
Foundation, DARPA, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. I have
also received corporate support from Hostway Corporation in Chicago,
Microsoft Corporation, Hewlett-Packard, Typesafe, and Google Research
(awarded to me and Yung-Hsiang Lu at Purdue in the area of machine
perception).
